# Amazon S3

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage offering industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Customers of all sizes and industries can store and protect any amount of data for virtually any use case, such as data lakes, cloud-native applications, and mobile apps. With cost-effective storage classes and easy-to-use management features, you can optimize costs, organize data, and configure fine-tuned access controls to meet specific business, organizational, and compliance requirements.

- Object-based storage. Store unlimited amount of data without worry of underlying storage infrastructure
- S3 replicates data across at least 3 AZs to ensure 99.99% availability and 11'9s of durability
- Objects contain your data
- Objects can be size anywhere from 0 Bytes to 5 Terabytes
- Buckets contain objects. Buckets can also contain folders which can in turn can contain objects
- Bucket names are unique across all AWS accounts. Like a domain name
- When you upload a file to S3 successfully, you'll receive a HTTP 200 response code
- Lifecycle Management Objects can be moved between storage classes or objects can be deleted automatically based on a schedule
- Versioning Objects are giving a Version ID. When new objects are uploaded the old objects are kept. You can access any object version. When you delete an object the previous object is restored. Once Versioning is turned on, it cannot be turned off, only suspended.
- MFA Delete enforce DELETE operations to require MFA token in order to delete an object. Must have versioning turned on to use. Can only turn on MFA Delete from the AWS CLI. Root Account is only allowed to delete objects.
- All new buckets are private by default.
- Logging can be turned to on a bucket to track operations performed on objects.
- Access control is configured using Bucket Policies and Access Control Lists (ACL)
- Bucket Policies are JSON documents which let you write complex control access.
- ACLs are the legacy method (not deprecated) where you grant access to objects and buckets with simple actions.
- Security in Transit: Uploading files is done over SSL
- SSE stands for Server Side Encryption. S3 has 3 options for SEE.
- SSE-AES: S3 handles the key, uses AES-256 algorithm
- SSE-KMS: Envelope encryption via AWS KMS and you manage the keys
- SSE-C: Customer provided key (you manage the keys)
- Client-Side Encryption: You must encrypt your own files before uploading them to S3
- Cross Region Replication (CRR) allows you to replicate files accross regions for greater durability. You must have versioning turned on in the source and destination bucket. You can have CRR replicate to butcket in another AWS Account.
- Transfer Acceleration provides faster and secure uploads from anywhere in the world. Data is upload via distinct url to and Edge Location. Data is then transported to your S3 bucket via AWS backbone network.
- Presigned Url's is a url generated via the AWS CLI and SDK. It provides temporary access to write or download object data. Presigned Urls are commonly used to access private objects.